Hi all,

This is Srikant.
Today i am going to discuss about version control system  specificlly GIT.
most of u must be aware of what a VCS or source code  management tool does .
it is used for tracking changes in computer files and coordinating work on those files among multiple people at the same time.


VCS is either  ditributed/decentralzed 


VCS->
-It is a software that helps software developers to work together and maintain a complete history of their work. 
-It is a system that records changes to a file or set of files over time so that you can recall specific versions later.
-It allows you to revert selected files back to a previous state,
-revert the entire project back to a previous state
-compare changes over time
-see who last modified something and when .



advantages:
Allows developers to work simultaneously
Does not allow overwriting each other’s changes. 
Maintains a history of every version.

local vcs ->copy files into another directory (perhaps a time-stamped directory,(simple but error prone)
centarlized VCS - SVN/perforce/Accurev etc -> But the major drawback of CVCS is its single
point of failure, i.e., failure of the central server. Unfortunately, if the central
server goes down for an hour, then during that hour, no one can collaborate at
all. And even in a worst case, if the disk of the central server gets corrupted and
proper backup has not been taken, then you will lose the entire history of the
project.

Distributed: GIT ,mercurial etc

Advantages of distributed :

DVCS clients not only check out the latest snapshot of the directory but they
also fully mirror the repository. If the sever goes down, then the repository from
any client can be copied back to the server to restore it. Every checkout is a full
backup of the repository. Git does not rely on the central server and that is why
you can perform many operations when you are offline.You can commit
changes, create branches, view logs, and perform other operations when you
are offline. You require network connection only to publish your changes and
take the latest changes.

GIT:

->free and open source


GIT BASIC commands:



